---
title: Human Oversight
layout: default
parent: Risks & Limitations
nav_order: 8
---

## **Human Oversight** ##
***

It is not possible to create automated technical content with GenAI and immediately publish it as a finished product without human review. You cannot simply delegate the task of content creation to machines without the involvement of human experts.
If the company policy allows, technical writers can use GenAI as a virtual assistant. GenAI offers many [possibilities](https://kinrap.github.io/GenerativeAIForTechWriters/Docs/Capabilities.html), but it also carries [risks and limitations](https://kinrap.github.io/GenerativeAIForTechWriters/Docs/Risk&Limitations.html) that require human intervention.

GenAI can analyze patterns, but understanding nuances and strategic alignment are best handled by humans. Domain-specific terminology requires human expertise, as do accuracy and relevance of the content.

Human intervention is necessary at every stage when using GenAI, from preparing training data to reviewing the content for domain-specific accuracy. Content generated by GenAI must be checked for potential inaccuracies or "hallucinations," and a thorough understanding of the broader context is essential. Human intervention remains crucial to ensure accuracy and cultural sensitivity. Despite extensive training, GenAI writing tools remain imperfect. They often exhibit redundancy and include irrelevant information in the generated text. Therefore, continuous review and verification are necessary to ensure the content makes sense for the readers.

Additionally, technical writing requires close collaboration with subject matter experts (SMEs) to gather knowledge and ensure content accuracy. This human element is key to creating content that is not only technically accurate but also user-friendly and culturally relevant. SME is accountable for a final and comprehensive review of the documentation to ensure completeness, coherence, and accuracy. GenAI can also assist SMEs by supporting tasks such as content and version comparison. It can make updates based on clear instructions, but the final decision on incorporating feedback rests with humans. Similarly, the responsibility for the quality, clarity, and completeness of the documentation lies with SMEs and the technical writing team.

Complex text and image structures also require the human eye. GenAI can suggest layouts, but the final design often benefits from human touch. The expertise and design sensibility of human writers remain indispensable in the publication process, not only for graphical or visual reasons, but also due to the nuances of different file formats. When integrated with publishing platforms, GenAI can initiate publishing commands, but human oversight is necessary in other cases.

All these aspects show that in technical writing, GenAI can only serve as a supportive tool. Human oversight remains indispensable.
